# FHIR-51336: Which Resource Artifacts are Individually Query-able, vs Just Included as Logical Models?

## Description

The Manifest_ resources all indicate that they are “not used by any profiles in this Implementation Guide” (I think this is text inserted from the IG publisher). We’ve interpreted these as representing ‘data models’, rather than implementable resources (reachable in a query)

We’d suggest further elaboration on how these ‘profiles’ relate to the expected implementable/queryable resources. In addition, the page states that “&#91;t&#93;he manifest is a FHIR bundle that includes the ImagingStudy resource and at least one Endpoint”, while also stating that “&#91;i&#93;n document based deployments, it is the ‘document’ that is searched for and provides URLs that allow download of the imaging content. It is the data that is provide by a PACS system”.

This makes it unclear whether a FHIR document (composition) is expected for the ImagingStudy resources, or if the ImagingStudy resources (which already contain Endpoint information) may be returned as a standard SearchSet bundle. We suggest allowing standard SearchSet bundles to mirror typical FHIR workflows and to reduce implementation time and cost.

Clarifying the query interactions for each artifact and how it they work together is important.

For example:

Document Approach: 
GET {Document URL indexed by MHD DocumentReference}, Receive Document-type bundle conforming to manifest bundle/report bundle. Child models (e.g. Endpoint) have profiles but are not necessarily individually query-able.

Single Research Search: 

GET ImagingStudy/DiagnosticReport, Receive Searchset Bundle conforming to FHIR core.

Here ImagingStudy is directly deployable by itself in native FHIR single-resource search.

It should be separated in the IG which resources are directly tied to these interactions, and which are just downstream data profiles (e.g. the Patient resource in the bundle).

(Not 100% about this, but I think you can separate the deployable profiles from the data model profiles with StructureDefinition.kind = logical / resource)

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51336
- Summary: Which Resource Artifacts are Individually Query-able, vs Just Included as Logical Models?
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: IM ImagingStudy Manifest [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/29/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved

## Related

- Grouping: [manifest]
