# FHIR-51407: Lacks explanation of performer slices in ImImagingStudy

## Description

The different slices for performer in ImagingStudy.series.performer are not documented in text. It seems that the profiles tries to establish one slice for performer (human), another for devices and a third for custodian organization. This logic should be described in text.

Also the code definition of the code chosen for the performer:performer slice does not align well with the limited types of actors that are required in the slice (only PractitionerRole is allowed). The definition of the code is however "A person, non-person living subject, organization or device that who actually and principally carries out the action. Device should only be assigned as a performer in circumstances where the device is performing independent of human intervention. Need not be the principal responsible actor." This should at least be described in the documentation/description of the element and slices in the StructureDefinition.

Some more documentation about the way the author want these slices to be used, preferably in the element.definition, would make the profile a lot easier to read.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51407
- Summary: Lacks explanation of performer slices in ImImagingStudy
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: IM Imaging Study [deprecated]
- Reporter: Thomas TveitRosenlund
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 7/1/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive

The intend of these slices was to indicate in what way we should refer to the custodian, imaging device, and clinician that made the scan. As such it makes sense to update the description to clarify these distinctions.

Regarding the use of the PRF code for the clinician. It is correct that description of the code allows it to be used for device and organization as well. We did not want to prevent the use of the code for those purposes but want to indicate that the clinician that made the scan is to be labelled. We will add this description and allow the use of EuOrganization and Eu Device as well.

## Related

- Grouping: [Block-Vote-3]
