# FHIR-51157: Composition: Document DiagnosticReport Reference 0..

## Description

Document DiagnosticReport Reference extensions, align with the approach  adopted in the laboratory report where this extension is optional, preadoption the R5 rules for document entry inclusion.

	make the cardinality 0...
	Add a section in the background page explaining this design choice (copy from the laboratory report IG)

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51157
- Summary: Composition: Document DiagnosticReport Reference 0..
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Composition [deprecated]
- Reporter: Giorgio Cangioli
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/19/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive

Persuasive. In ImComposition profile, the extension extension:diagnosticreport-reference will change its cardinality from 1..1 to 0..1. And the followingf text will be added a new section in the Design considerations page: "Pre-adoption of R5 Rules for Document Bundles. this guide allows for the pre-adoption of the R5 rules for the inclusion of the resources in a document Bundle, that is:

"The document bundle SHALL include only: <..> The supporting information: Any resources that are part of the graph of resources that reference or are referenced from the composition set, either directly or indirectly (e.g. recursively in a chain)"

in opposition to the R4 rules requiring that, with the exception of the Provenance resource and the Binary including the stylesheet, only resources directly or indirectly - referred from the composition can be included.

This choice is justified by the fact that:

There was a good consensus in the HL7 FHIR community for supporting this.
In R5 the link between the DiagnosticReport and the Composition is realized with a Reference from the DiagnosticReport. The team decided to follow the same design pattern to facilitate the R4 to R5 transition.
Adding a reference from the Composition to the DiagnosticReport would create an undesirable circular reference.
However, this choice it is not imposed, so that usage contexts whishing to keep a full consistency with R4 rules, may used the DiagnosticReportReference extension to refer the DiagnosticReport from the Composition. The adoption of this extension implies the presence of a circular reference Composition to/from DiagnosticReport."

## Related

- Grouping: [Block-Vote-1]
