# FHIR-51283: Search Parameters Should Be Specified

## Description

This guide should further specify the expected query parameters for ImagingStudy, DiagnosticReport, and MHD DocumentReference (shared as well as independent parameters).

We would also strongly suggest that ImagingStudy and DiagnosticReport support complementary, but not identical, subsets of the query parameters mentioned within the eHN Release 1.1 guidelines. By not requiring that each resource support all of the query parameters, the authors can achieve the desired workflows while also supporting the goal expressed elsewhere in this guide that the RIS and PACS should each be required to return only the information they already possess.

 

For example:

	A Report Provider (RIS) could be required to support search parameters for DiagnosticReport on:
	
		Subject/Patient
		Study Identifier
		code == 18748-4 (note, the eHN guidelines seem to mention other types of ‘imaging’ that would not normally fall under Diagnostic Imaging. This includes cardiology, endoscopy, perhaps even visible light images).
		EffectiveDateTime
		Status (note – it is unclear to us whether non-final reports would ever be exchanged).
	
	
	A Manifest Provider (PACS) has reliable data that can be used to search/filter on the below in ImagingStudy:
	
		Status
		Modality (keeping in mind that there may be multiple codes used for a given device)
		Subject/patient
		Started
		bodySite – the PACS knows the specific anatomy imaged, while a RIS may know only the intended sites for imaging and may in fact only possess a procedure code today.
		Laterality
	
	
	Some of these shared parameters can be brought up to the DocumentReference level for MHD, but I suggest caution on overloading the MHD DocRef with parameters already specified well at the individual resource level. Recommend profiling only minimum shared elements at the DocumentReference level, such as:
	
		Patient
		Doc Type (Manifest or Report)
	
	



The above facilitates discovery of a patient’s imaging and the ability to find relevant images for a particular category.

The guide would also benefit from implementer guidance to caution against overly specific searches, such as those for a particular imaging procedure. Overly specific queries can lead to the exclusion of relevant results for a recipient, which can harm patient care.

We would also suggest an inventory of PACS systems to confirm their ability to respond to requests for a particular anatomy. If a PACS receives a query asking for Lumbar Spine – 122496007, it is important that CT-Spine exams be returned, even if the ‘anatomy’ tagged to the images were SCT 421060004 for ‘Structure of Vertebral Column”.

 

References:

Imaging Diagnostic Report - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-ballot

IM Imaging Study - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-ballot

Imaging Study Report Provider/Creator - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-ballot
Imaging Manifest Reports Provider/Creator - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-ballot

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51283
- Summary: Search Parameters Should Be Specified
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: IM ImagingStudy Manifest [deprecated]
Imaging Diagnostic Report [deprecated]
Manifest DocumentReference for MHD deployments [deprecated]
Report DocumentReference for MHD deployments [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive

We will create an actor that represents a MHD producer/consumer and related capability statement with the required search parameters. The MCWG search parameters will be adopted.

We will create an actor that represents a QEDm like producer/consumer and related capability statement with the required search parameters for the relevant resources. 

We will add a note that this content needs to be aligned with the content the new EEHRxF access (JWT-API) spec.

## Related

- Grouping: [block-vote-4]
