# FHIR-51289: Guidance Should be Provided on Dual Read and Resident Workflows, along with System-Generated Compositions

## Description

The Composition currently includes several fields related to the originator of the Result and/or Composition. These include:

	Author 1..*
	Attester 0..*
	legalAuthenticator 0..*
	Custodian 0..1



We would suggest providing at least informational guidance on when each of these is used. The cardinalities as specified seem correct, but we expect confusion from implementers.

Note that an Imaging Results Report may have multiple authors – a set of imaging may have been read by authors from different imaging specialties, who then collaborated on a report or each wrote separate sections, or a resident may have been involved. Especially for legacy data (which we believe should be shared if possible to improve care outcomes), the roles of multiple providers on a result may not have been well specified.

We also note that many Compositions will be generated ad-hoc by the system at the time of query, similar to delayed-assembly documents. We should be careful in baking in assumptions that a user is present to send and attest to the document. This is because an EHR may store the data in a format besides FHIR. Even for groups that do have data stored in a FHIR format at rest, they may only have DiagnosticReports today. As such, we suggest guidance for implementers that they should not rely on the presence of an Attester or legalAuthenticator, and direct to DiagnosticReport fields instead.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51289
- Summary: Guidance Should be Provided on Dual Read and Resident Workflows, along with System-Generated Compositions
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Composition [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Persuasive

We will update the description in the Composition resource to more clearly state the difference of these fields.

We will explain in the use case and imaging report section that the diagnostic report is the main entry point and the composition is a rendering of the report. This includes flipping the overview picture, placing the diagnostic report to the left and the composition to the right. We will also change the unstructured report example to rely on just a DiagnosticReport and not on DocumentReference and a an example.
