# FHIR-51393: DiagnosticReport.Performer is not sufficiently prescriptive

## Description

DiagnosticReport.performer is not sufficiently prescriptive.



This could be:

	The Radiology tech that facilitated the imaging exam and snapped the picture
	
The organization that did the imaging (clinic with the MRI)
	The radiologist that wrote the report (though this is resultsInterpreter not performer:author)



Recommend adding guidance to separate out these cases. It's also unclear the difference between author and resultsInterpreter.

Similar story in ImagingStudy.Performer (though this is more clearly scoped to the imaging procedure, it is unclear whether it's the Manifest host or the original image source location).

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51393
- Summary: DiagnosticReport.Performer is not sufficiently prescriptive
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Diagnostic Report [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/30/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive with Modification

# To improve normalization and in alignment with IHE IDR, the slice DiagnosticReport.performer[author] will be renamed to [organization], and allow only referencing Organization resources. Also the description of that element will say : "The organization responsible for producing this report. In case practitioners produce them in their private practices, they will be accounted as an organization for this purpose". 
 # Create a new slice Composition.author[organization], with the same modelling pattern (only reference Oranization resource type). 
 # Create an invariant between both resources to check that the data in both elements match 
 # Update the The Xt-HER mapping  header.authorship.author[Organization] targeting  DiagnosticReport.performer[organization] AND Composition.author[organization]

## Related

- Grouping: [Block-Vote-3]
