# FHIR-56038: R5 constraint on Observation linkage

## Description

In R5, DiagnosticReport has a constraint that is hampering validation of R5 reports.

See https://hl7.org/fhir/R5/diagnosticreport.html#invs

It requires to include in the result section all Observations that are present in the referred Composition.

This has several issues:

	we currently only require inclusion of findings and not impressions
	patient history observations are required to be included as well but are no results.
	there are validator/publisher issues that hamper validation



Proposed solution:

	Require the result field to include all finding and impression observations.
	In R5, observations in the patient history section should be referred to by including an indirection using a List resource.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-56038
- Summary: R5 constraint on Observation linkage
- Status: Resolved - change required
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Diagnostic Report [deprecated]
- Reporter: Bas van den Heuvel
- Assignee: IgnacioJauregui
- Created: 3/10/26

## Resolution

- Status: Resolved - change required
- Resolution: Not Persuasive with Modification

The intent is not to solve it in the ballot version and to address this in ballot resolution. So we will:
 * leave the specification as is and accept the error (add ignorewarning.txt entry).
 * add an STU note requesting ballot feedback on this topic, explaining that there are two issues:
 ** specification issue - referring to non-result observation
 ** publisher issue - relates to strange/erroneous behavior when validating this constraint and linking to the github publisher ticket.

If no comments are filed on this topic, this approach carries.

We will/have filed a ticket on the publisher to fix the technical issue.
