# FHIR-51354: Mapping from A.3 Order Reason to Imaging Order

## Description

Source: Mapping from A.3 Order Reason to Imaging Order · Issue #21 · hl7-eu/imaging

Main comment:
The clinical question and the reason are typically two separated issues.

The clinical question in a narrative form should be a question ending with a questionmark, eg. "Lung infection ?", "Brain tumour" etc. It may even be formulated (not always) as a condition (see the examples) with a question if the condition is present. However, in reality, many imaging requests have questions like "Exclude any pathology" or even "preoperative" (chest X-ray). As you see, it may be coded, but free text has to be available as well.

The Reason on the other hand is rather structured reason for the procedure. In alignment with examples above, it may be "Fever and cough for 2 months", "Epileptic seazure, right leg weakness" or "we plan an operation".

Hope this is explanatory enough, if not please ask.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51354
- Summary: Mapping from A.3 Order Reason to Imaging Order
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: IM Imaging Order [deprecated]
- Reporter: Bas van den Heuvel
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/30/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Not Persuasive with Modification

Breaking it out into two different data points does not bring clinical value. The concrete definitions of the terms is vague, and there can be different interpretations of what the data mean. 

Add to the page ImComposition guidance that different options exist for representing the various ways of coding a clinical question separate from a coded reason.  E.g. include a dedicated "clinical-question" section in the Composition resource. The section will not be added to the ImComposition profile.
