# FHIR-51290: We Suggest Focusing First on a Core Imaging Dataset, and then Expanding as the Field Gains Experience

## Description

Currently, the Composition contains dedicated sections for a large set of data. This includes:

	AdverseEvents
	RadiationDose
	Contrast Medications
	Procedure Phases



We would suggest excluding these from a first version of this guide so that the interoperability community can focus on the immediate need of making imaging results available and scaling interoperability across the EU. Including this in scope increases complexity and cost and distracts from the immediate goal of making reports available.

As detail:

	Workflows vary significantly for how AdverseEvents are tracked, and how this is reflected in imaging. If a patient has a minor adverse reaction, the imaging may proceed (in which case, the reaction likely is not relevant), it may lead to a change of procedure, or it may result in the imaging being stopped. Since we expect that only completed procedures will be shared across borders, this information is rarely relevant to interpreting results. If the goal is to help recipient systems place better orders themselves (identify an appropriate protocol for the patient, understand why alternatives protocols were not used) this could be added at a later date after the implementer community has realized the immediate goal of ensuring images are available at the point of care.
	Radiation Dose – this information should generally originate from the PACS. Most EHRs also have only limited ability to track radiation dose; they may support free text fields, DICOM SR templates for CT radiation dose, or measurements from the legacy DICOM MPPS standard, but adoption is generally low, and the PACS will have more accurate information.
	
		This European Radiology survey (Question 8) recommends dose data should be included in a separate dose tracking system rather than in the Report.
		Alternatively, if data must be communicated to the EHR, we recommend letting the Home - Radiation Dose Summary for Diagnostic Procedures on FHIR v1.0.0 IG further develop the FHIR mapping of this data.
	
	
	Contrast - while it is important for viewers of imaging to know whether contrast was used with a procedure, this is often reflected in the performed procedure code (the Procedure resource) and in the radiologist’s textual narrative. Discretely sharing information regarding medications is a large increase in scope for minimal benefit.
	Procedure Phases – generally, results are generated for imaging as a whole: there are not separate results for imaging that occurred without contrast and imaging that occurred with contrast. If documented, this information is present in the DICOM data already, and we do not expect that requesting clinicians would wish to query only for the imaging of the ‘non-contrast’ portion, without obtaining images from the broader study or key images.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51290
- Summary: We Suggest Focusing First on a Core Imaging Dataset, and then Expanding as the Field Gains Experience
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Adverse Event [deprecated]
Radiation Dose Observation [deprecated]
ValueSet: Imaging Procedure Type
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved
