# FHIR-51306: Clarify how Changes to Resources and Underlying Data Should be Handled

## Description

Currently, there is no guidance within this IG for how versioning of resources is handled. It notes briefly that multiple DocumentReferences MAY be used. The broader eHN guidance specifies on page 9 (Functional process step 8) that the latest versions of studies/reports are provided. 

We would recommend specifying a data element that may be used for tracking when a report was last updated or its version to account for addenda workflows and scenarios where a single record holder is queried for information at two different moments in time.

We would recommend use of DiagnosticReport.issued rather than an element within the Meta tag or composition, due to its broad use in the FHIR community today. 
Note that, although rare, similar changes can occur to DICOM instances at rest that may not result in a new UID.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51306
- Summary: Clarify how Changes to Resources and Underlying Data Should be Handled
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Diagnostic Report [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive with Modification

We will add the guidance on the use of DiagnosticReport.issued.

We will add a section to the report section on versioning, illustrating the use of the artifactversion extension.

We will add version as a recommended search parameter.

## Related

- Grouping: [block-vote-4]
