# FHIR-51296: Clarify the Expectations for IID vs WADO Endpoints

## Description

This guide specifies both WADO-RS and IID endpoints (although both are optional). Is there guidance for when each should be used, and is one expected as the minimum to support? Allowing both has the potential to double consumer costs to get complete coverage of source implementations.

WADO-RS and IID have potentially substantial differences in workflow, auth/access, provenance, etc. Creating clearer expectations here could save the implementer community significant development, and helping to create alignment could save implementation time and cost. 

For most of the workflows described, and depending on the wider architectural question of how references may be resolved across affiliate domains, we believe WADO-RS endpoints should be preferred if available. This can support both the Radiologist Overread workflow (by providing full diagnostic quality images), comparison studies, and key images. It can also support wiewers deployed at the local level, which we expect to be the preference for many providers.

Additionally, deploying IID Endpoints in a cross-border setting introduces additional challenges: 
(1) Localization: If I'm deploying a Spanish-language viewer cross-border, either all receivers need to understand Spanish or I need to support ALL possible destination locales. 
(2) Access and authorization: Sending all the client &lt;&gt; server viewer traffic through the NCP connections is more challenging compared to an API such as WADO-RS. Going direct could be better but multiplies the access possibilities for servers. 
(3) Usability. From an image access consumer perspective, I don't want 26 different viewers from 26 countries. I probably want the locally deployed viewer I'm familiar with and use for other workflows.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51296
- Summary: Clarify the Expectations for IID vs WADO Endpoints
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: IM Image Viewer Endpoint [deprecated]
IM WADO Endpoint [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved

## Related

- Grouping: [manifest]
