# FHIR-51581: Change the name of history section

## Description

I see couple of problems with the history section.

	Section history in the composition has slightly confusing name. I propose to rename this section and follow logical model, which calls this section "Supporting Information" or find a better name (e.g. anamnesis or medicalHistory).
	To specify resources that we expect to be provided in the entry of this section -with information specific for imaging (e.g. Observation, Condition, Device, Medication Administration). This will be useful for implementers of rendering applications. Any resource represents a challange in this case.
	Improve description of this section, e.g.: Additional clinical information about the patient or specimen that may affect service delivery or interpretation.
	Improve description of this section in intro text: we should mention at least typical information that are affecting imaging, e.g. pregnancy status, presens of metal implants, medication given prior imaging, etc.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51581
- Summary: Change the name of history section
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Sections: history
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Composition [deprecated]
- Reporter: HynekKruzik
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 7/29/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive with Modification

ad 1. The name of the section is derived from the IHE-IDR specification ([IHE_RAD_Suppl_IDR_Rev1-0_PC_2025-05-09|https://www.ihe.net/uploadedFiles/Documents/Radiology/IHE_RAD_Suppl_IDR_Rev1-0_PC_2024-05-09.pdf]), with which we want to maintain compatibility. So in order to retain compatibility, I propose not the change the name.

ad.2 I understand what you are saying, IDR also leaves this one open but indicates that this will typically be populated with [Condition|https://build.fhir.org/ig/IHE/RAD.IDR/branches/master/StructureDefinition-idr-patient-history-condition.html], [Observation|https://build.fhir.org/ig/IHE/RAD.IDR/branches/master/StructureDefinition-idr-patient-history-observation.html], [Procedure|https://build.fhir.org/ig/IHE/RAD.IDR/branches/master/StructureDefinition-idr-patient-history-procedure.html] and/or [FamilyMemberHistory|https://build.fhir.org/ig/IHE/RAD.IDR/branches/master/StructureDefinition-idr-patient-history-family-member-history.html]. This list does not include Device and MedicationAdministration but I can understand these. Device (especially when implanted and MedicationAdminstration to document medication administered before the session. I suggest to update include these as entries and explicitly state others can be added when needed. 

ad.3 Agreed

ad.4 Agreed

## Related

- Grouping: [block-vote-4]
