# FHIR-51273: Further Guidance Should Be Given on Endpoint Image Access Across Networks and Behind NCPs

## Description

It is unclear from the implementation guide how access to the endpoints (IID, WADO-RS) are controlled. This should be specified so clients and hosts can achieve consistent access methods to images.

	Do the authors envision that all queries would be proxied through the NCP, with the NCP providing endpoints that would direct reference resolution to the appropriate record holders? If so, how is this managed?
	Alternatively, is direct access allowed?
	Would the NCPs themselves support IID viewing?
	Who could be hosting the viewer (source, intermediary, local, all of the above), and how widely are they deploying access? If an IID viewer is communicated cross-border, is there an expectation to localize the viewer to the destination?
	Are concepts from from XC-WADO or SMART Imaging Access / SMART Multi Auth leveraged?



 

One idea to help implementers would be to create end-to-end sequence diagrams for the key envisioned workflows, along the lines of the below. Ideally, this would include information on the pre-coordination steps anticipated and expected authentication/authorization and endpoint discovery flows behind NCPs, even if some details are left to national infrastructure.



 Expanding on the functional process steps (described on Page 9 of the Guidelines on medical imaging studies and reports, Release 1.1, Nov 2024, page 9) with diagrams for the key workflows would help the implementer community during implementation. This would reduce both cost and the time to implement.



Furthermore, creating such documentation now ensures a consistent understanding of the envisioned flows during design and further balloting of this specification. This would be very helpful to add with the Transactions page under development.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51273
- Summary: Further Guidance Should Be Given on Endpoint Image Access Across Networks and Behind NCPs
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Sections: Recommended New section on "Image Access Endpoint Obligations"
- Related Artifacts: IM WADO Endpoint [deprecated]
Manifest obligations for ImImageIidViewerEndpoint [deprecated]
Manifest obligations for ImWadoEndpoint [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved

## Related

- Grouping: [manifest]
