# FHIR-51733: Include encounter in the header mapping

## Description

Xt-EHR Header Authorship is the only mandatory element containing information about producer of the imaging report. Cardinality of this element is 1..* and includes mandatory author of type EHDSAuthor. EHDSAuthor includes optional Organization element.

This model actually allows inclusion of one or more authors from zero to more organizations and the IG follows this model. This will represent a potential problem with identification of a healthcare provider organization which is actualy releasing a report. And we should resolve this problem according to my opinion. 

In fact, the organization which released the report should be equal to the organization responsible for the respective encounter. If we will agree on this, then we should ensure that encounter information will be always present and contains information about the  organization. 

 

My recommendation is to:

	Adjust cardinality of encounter resource
	Add mapping from header.authorship to the encounter.organization
	Add Obligation for consumer to display encounter organization information
	Provide guidance for displaying of the  report

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51733
- Summary: Include encounter in the header mapping
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Map for EHDSImagingReportHeader [deprecated]
- Reporter: HynekKruzik
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 8/12/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved
