# FHIR-51388: Exchange of Manifest Bundle is Unclear, Perhaps Underscoped

## Description

IM ImagingStudy Manifest - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-ballot

Related to the top-level Manifest Bundle - Which type of bundle is being used here seems under-specified. At first look it appears to not just include a Document-Type bundle with Composition (as Imaging Report and others have used), but also any other bundle type (document | message | transaction | transaction-response | batch | batch-response | history | searchset | collection | subscription-notification, etc).

Requiring manifest providers/consumers to support all of these bundle types is a lot of scope and greatly increases effort. It should be constrained to simplify deployment, and clarified which bundle type should be primarily used to communicate the manifest Bundle (see Document approach below)


This ties in with the use cases and transactions need discussion noted elsewhere in tickets.

Workflow goal here is to offer an interface to search over manifests:

From the single-resource perspective (which is my preference), I would want to do a  FHIR native search on ImagingStudy and get back a SearchSet Bundle as the core FHIR spec defines. I can determine which resources as a client I want with _Include, or follow links in subsequent calls.

From the "document" perspective, how the Manifest should be communicated in a Bundle is a good question. It should be clear (A) which resources should be included in the bundle vs referenced (there's some business logic here) and (B) fit into something like MHD or similar for document exchange.

However, there's less of a need in the manifest for doing a FHIR document with the human-readable composition. Maybe collection or operation type bundle, not sure.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51388
- Summary: Exchange of Manifest Bundle is Unclear, Perhaps Underscoped
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: IM ImagingStudy Manifest [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/30/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved

## Related

- Grouping: [manifest]
