# FHIR-51333: Should Images Still be Included in the Manifest if No Endpoint is Available, to Inform that the Imaging Occurred and for Out-of-Band Follow-up?

## Description

Manifest obligations for ImImagingStudy - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-ballot

This profile lists that both the IID and WADO-RS endpoints are optional. Should ImagingStudies be returned in the manifest if there is no endpoint available (or if the Endpoint has a status indicating that images cannot be immediately obtained)?
We would suggest that they should still be returned if known so that users can follow up out of band if needed. Providing the fuller clinical picture improves care outcomes, and alerts clinicians to the potential need for follow up. 


Note that it is very common for PACS systems to archive some data to long term storage, which may lead to long response times or images being unavailable. In this scenario, even if the link isn't available, ImagingStudy metadata is useful.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51333
- Summary: Should Images Still be Included in the Manifest if No Endpoint is Available, to Inform that the Imaging Occurred and for Out-of-Band Follow-up?
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Manifest obligations for ImImagingStudyManifest [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/29/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved

## Related

- Grouping: [manifest]
