# FHIR-51331: Proposal for a separate documentation of medical question and the radiological question

## Description

Resource profile: https://build.fhir.org/ig/hl7-eu/imaging/StructureDefinition-ImOrder.html

In the German DIN Norm, there is a differentiation between the medical question and the radiological question. 

The medical question ist the one the referring physician is asking, like "coughing and fever, pneumonia?"

The radiological question ist the specific features the radiologist would be then looking for, like "Evaluate for pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusion, and other signs suggestive of pneumonia."

We mapped the medical question to servicerequest.reason.

	This would also be a reasonable place to map the radiological question to, however, we then run into issues of unclear authorship as the serviceRequest is usually authored by the referring physician.



Therefore, we see a need to be able to create a new version of the order by the radiologist, which is indeed possible to our kowledge. The fields servicerequest.requester would have to be updated to the radiologist's details and servicerequest.reason to the radiological question. Would this be the right way?

	Sometimes, multiple medical questions from different servicerequests result in the same procedure. For example, "Cough and fever, pneumonia?" and "History of malignancy, rule out pulmonary metastases?" would both result in one single chest CT, while  "Cough and fever, pneumonia?" alone would more probably result in an X-Ray. In this case, we would reference multiple ImagingOrder resources in the order-section. Would this be the right way?

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51331
- Summary: Proposal for a separate documentation of medical question and the radiological question
- Status: Triaged
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: IM Imaging Order [deprecated]
- Reporter: Alexander Zautke
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/28/25

## Resolution

- Status: Triaged
- Resolution: Unresolved
