# FHIR-51342: Imaging Key Image Document Reference - Problems with Identifier

## Description

There are several problems with the identifier slices on Imaging Key Image Document Reference:

	slice identifier:seriesInstanceUid:
	
		the element type.coding.code has a fixed value "00080018" which is the code for the SOP InstanceUID and not the SeriesInstanceUID
	
	
	slice identifier:sopClassInstanceUid:
	
		what exactly is a SOPClassInstanceUID? there are two attributes to describe a SOPInstance, the SOPClassUID and the SOPInstanceUID but not both in one
		the element type.coding.code has a fixed value "112002" which is the code for the SeriesInstanceUID and not the SOPClassUID or the SOPInstanceUID
		there already is a datatype profile in this IG that describes a similar structure (https://hl7.eu/fhir/imaging-r5/0.1.0-ballot/StructureDefinition-im-sop-instance-uid-identifier.html), why wasn't it used in this profile?
	
	



Furthermore, there are already the following datatype profiles for identifier in this IG:

	https://hl7.eu/fhir/imaging-r5/0.1.0-ballot/StructureDefinition-im-study-instance-uid-identifier.html
	https://hl7.eu/fhir/imaging-r5/0.1.0-ballot/StructureDefinition-im-sop-instance-uid-identifier.html



why aren't there profiles for SeriesInstanceUID and a proper one for SOPInstanceUID as well?

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51342
- Summary: Imaging Key Image Document Reference - Problems with Identifier
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Key Image Document Reference [deprecated]
- Reporter: Reinhard Egelkraut
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/29/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive

These are clearly errors in the specification the need to be fixed.

The intend for this profile is that it can point to a instance (identifier is SopInstanceUid) or serie (SerieInstanceUID).

We will:
 * add a identifier for SerieInstanceUID
 * split the profile in two - one representing an instance (use SopInstanceUid identifier), one representing a serie (use SerieInstanceUID identifier).

In order for these profiles to be used in manifest as well as report, they need to move to a central point - EU-core. We will file a ticket for them to be included. It is expected that will not be done before the August/Sept release. Until that time we will keep it in the image-report IG>
