# FHIR-53075: Rename the FHIR IG as EU Imaging Report (FHIR)

## Description

The current FHIR IG, is called "EU Imaging Study Report (FHIR)".  We propose to rename it: "EU Imaging Report (FHIR)".  Here are the reasons.

In the eHN Guidelines on Medical imaging studies and reports - Public Health defines:

Imaging report
An imaging report reflects the observations and interpretations of one or more
imaging studies. It usually contains elements such as the reason why the study is
requested, relevant contextual medical information, the used modality and its
settings, procedures and body localisations that were used, a description of the
observations and findings, exposure information, conclusion and advice.
Imaging study
An imaging study comprises a set of objects, including images and other objects,
that were made for a specific purpose and usually in response to a request from
a healthcare provider. The Imaging Study does not include the Imaging Report as
defined in this guideline.

These are widely accepted definitions.

Calling the "imaging report", per the above definition an "imaging study report" in the current FHIR IG poses some issues:

	given that it has been an achievement to distinguish clearly an "imaging report" from an "imaging study" calling the "imaging report" an "imaging study report" is likely to create a confusion in the reader.
	although an imaging report documents diagnostics statements made in the interpretation of one or more imaging studies, there should not be a one-to-one link hinted in the mind of the reader that one imaging reports is related to one imaging study.  Although is is often the case, many exceptions exist with a 1 to N relationship and N to 1 relationships and sometimes N to M relationships.
	Nowhere in IHE Radiology Profiles and the DICOM Standard is an imaging report called an "imaging study report".  Sometimes, the term "imaging diagnostics report" is used.  A quick web search shows that the term imaging study report  has been recently introduced in the HL7 FHIR European context.
	Finally the EHDS regulation never uses the term imaging study report but uses the term imaging reports in the associated  data category, for example in  recital 25: "Categories of electronic health data such as patient summaries, electronic prescriptions and dispensations, medical imaging studies and related imaging reports, medical test results such as laboratory results and related reports, and discharge reports have been selected by the eHealth Network as most relevant for the majority of healthcare situations and should be considered as priority categories for Member States to implement access to them and their transmission."  In Article 14 it states:  For the purposes of this Chapter, where data are processed in electronic format the priority categories of personal electronic health data shall be the following:
 (a) patient summaries;
 (b) electronic prescriptions;
 (c) electronic dispensations;
 (d) medical imaging studies and related imaging reports;
 (e) medical test results, including laboratory and other diagnostic results and related reports; and
 (f) discharge reports.



The FHIR IG should be renamed as: "EU Imaging Report (FHIR)".

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-53075
- Summary: Rename the FHIR IG as EU Imaging Report (FHIR)
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: current
- Reporter: CharlesParisot
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 10/7/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive

Rename the IG to "Imaging Report".
