# FHIR-51390: Imaging Report - Where should a Single Unstructured Result Report Go?

## Description

Today - even at world-leading advanced hospitals - the majority of radiologist reports written are a single plaintext (or more rarely RTF) blobs. There is not consistency in how result report sections are written by radiologists (or imaging interpreters more broadly) across regions or specialties. Many standardization projects have attempted over the years to standardize the report structure, but clinical practice still very greatly today.

We don't recommend introducing a requirement for structured reports as a prerequisite to exchanging EHDS imaging reports in the first version of the imaging report IG. Accomplishing this will take a lot of clinical consensus-making over many jurisdictions and should be considered as a separate project or version.

Including it as a requirement for exchange:

(1) adds data entry burden resulting clinicians beyond common clinical practice today

(2) risks limiting exchange to those hospitals that can convince their radiologists to result in the EU format, or forces RIS vendors to attempt to transform unstructured reports into the EU format (tricky)

(3) distracts from the overall goal of scaling interoperability across the EU 

 

All this is to say - there needs to be a clear location for this "single block of result text" to go in the imaging report. None of the composition sections fit well.

 

Suggestion: Add a Composition section for "Result Narrative" or similar to be populated when structure report sections aren't available (Recommendation, Comparison, Findings, Impression), and give guidance and an example of what this looks like.

Alternatively, we could use a DiagnosticReport.Result linking to an Observation text labeled "Narrative" (the US Core approach). This conflicts with the Composition approach though.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51390
- Summary: Imaging Report - Where should a Single Unstructured Result Report Go?
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Report obligations for ImComposition [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/30/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Not Persuasive with Modification

We will use Annotation to store unstructured text.

On DiagnosticReport this is done on DiagnosticReport.note. The annotation-type extension is used to indicate the section the note refers to (see [Imaging Diagnostic Report - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-build|https://build.fhir.org/ig/bvdh/bvdh-hl7eu-imaging/branches/FHIR-51275/StructureDefinition-ImDiagnosticReport.html]).

On composition the note extension will allow storing the same information in the Composition ([https://build.fhir.org/ig/bvdh/bvdh-hl7eu-imaging/branches/FHIR-51275/StructureDefinition-ImComposition.html] ).
