# FHIR-51308: Expand on Guidance for bodySite

## Description

bodySite(s) are CodeableReferences in a handful of resources. Should a code, reference, or both be used if both are known? Should one be specified as the minimum requirement for interoperability?

We would suggest that requiring a coding (via SNOMED) is a useful minimum. BodySite is a complex resource that may be difficult to parse/map, and that had changes between FHIR R4 and R5.

We would also suggest an inventory of PACS systems to confirm their ability to respond to requests for a particular anatomy via codes in a hierarchy. If a PACS receives a query asking for Lumbar Spine – 122496007, it is important that CT-Spine exams be returned, even if the ‘anatomy’ tagged to the images were SCT 421060004 for ‘Structure of Vertebral Column”.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51308
- Summary: Expand on Guidance for bodySite
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Manifest obligations for ImImagingStudy [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Not Persuasive with Modification

We will add a required extension with context ImagingStudy and DiagnosticReport holding the anatomical region (MCWG definition) of the study. When both are present they need to align.

We will add a search parameter allowing for searching of anatomical region on ImagingStudy and DiagnosticReport.

## Related

- Grouping: [block-vote-4]
