# FHIR-51288: Guidance Should Be Provided on Overread Workflows

## Description

We would suggest adding additional guidance on expectations for workflows, in which a radiologist creates a new report for a set of imaging that is independent of an earlier results report. This is common for QA and for referral to specialists.

Section 5.2 on “Data entrypoints” states that there MAY be more than one instance of the DiagnosticReport when the status of the report changes. An Overread would require a fully separate report.

Note that this can mean there are multiple DiagnosticReports for a given StudyUID and Accession Number (this is an additional reason that Accession Numbers should not be considered globally unique).

This also has considerations for what data is surfaced by a FHIR server and data’s provenance. An EHR may have result reports that originated at another care provider, but which did impact care decisions made at that organization. We would suggest that, in general, care organizations should be allowed (but not required) to share the data they are aware of that drove their own clinical decision making. This has implications for several fields of the Composition, especially Custodian.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51288
- Summary: Guidance Should Be Provided on Overread Workflows
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Composition [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive

We will add a text in the use case section of the document to state that there may be more than one report for the same study. The cause might be multiple versions of the same document, or reports generated from multiple sources for e.g. QA reasons.

## Related

- Grouping: [block-vote-4]
