# FHIR-53644: D7.2-1602 ->ensure provenance when providing resource based access

## Description

Source comment

Comment
In the light of the document-resource discussion: as in paragraph 6.5 of D5.1 is stated: resources can be used for building documenten en documents can be used for extracting resources, or resource can be used directly without the (intermediate) format of the document. If resources are used for constructing a document, care should be taken that provenance of the composing parts on resource level can be tracked with enough provenance. E.g. by adding business identificers to the composing resources and adding provenance of who are accountable and/or responsible for the content of the composing parts. This not only applies tot imaganing, but to all WP and the common model. So this should be checked and worked on on the level of de common logical model.

Proposal
Adjust sentence, so that it becomes clear that documents can or may be build out of resources and resources can or may be extracted from documents, so that we design for the future. See also D5.1 chapter 6.5.

Initial resolution:
We think providing provenance to the source is required and usefull. The requirement should be that the provenance is there. This does not necesarely require business identifiiers and can also be handled using a Provence resource. 

We will file a ticket on this topic, discuss it in imaging and when decision reached, promote it to core.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-53644
- Summary: D7.2-1602 ->ensure provenance when providing resource based access
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Reporter: Bas van den Heuvel
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 12/17/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive

We will add text to the document stating:

When a imaging report is received as a FHIR document Bundle and the server makes the resources available the following guidelines SHOULD be taken into account:
 * Follow the guidance provided in [IHE-mXDE|https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/mXDE/index.html], specifically related to the generation of Provenance resources; when the resources are added, a Provenance resource SHOULD be present providing information on the source of the information.
 * Retain the original DocumentReference and Bundle resource in the server.

## Related

- Grouping: [block-vote-5]
