# FHIR-51278: Support for Procedure Phases

## Description

Source: discussions with IHE-IDR and HL7-II during Madrid WGM

There is no single definition of a procedure phase in DICOM. It can refer to the phase of contrast application (when the contrast fluid moves through the body, different things can be seen), it can refer to a rescan at different points in time, can be based on the phases of a heart beat (cardio), different phases of a stress tests (exercise or medicine related for nuclear medicine or echo).

The representation of this in the data varies. It can be a separate serie, a subset of the images in a serie, several time periods within a scan, not identified in the DICOM information and introduced in the report by the radiologist.

When represented this could be a serie, instance, study, a set of frames, a subset of a series. It also has relationships with hanging protocols for which eHN indicated that they may add requirements in the future. When required, it is best represented as an ImagingSelection where the ImagingSelection.code can be used to specify what is represents.

Please update the specification with the explanation indicated above and add a mapping to ImagingSelection. Provide feedback to XtEHR that the phase is better placed in the report and not in the manifest (study).

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51278
- Summary: Support for Procedure Phases
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Reporter: Bas van den Heuvel
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive with Modification

XtEHR no longer requires procedure phase support. We will remove it from the specificaiton. This includes the design analysis: [Design Considerations - HL7 Europe Imaging Study Report v0.1.0-build|https://build.fhir.org/ig/hl7-eu/imaging/design-considerations.html#procedure-phases]

## Related

- Grouping: [Block-Vote-3]
