# FHIR-51299: Provide Recommendations on When Each Mechanism to Communicate Key Images Should be Used

## Description

If possible, this guide should provide a recommendation (not binding guidance) on when each of the mechanisms to communicate key images should be used. This could help to promote alignment in the implementer community, and save costs by avoiding diverging implementations.

Initiatives like IHE IMR aim to support richer result reports. However, there is not yet broad alignment in the implementer community on the mechanisms. In practice, radiology reports may include study-level links, embedded JPEGs, study level DICOM secondary capture objects, or embedded image links. This varies greatly based on the capabilities of the local system’s PACS (the ease with which radiologists can tag key images, whether that preserves annotations, etc.) and the capabilities of the PACS viewer. 

Our suggestion would be general guidance to leverage embedded images or ImagingSelection where possible (representing IHE KIN in the PACS), and DocumentReference only as a fallback when DICOM instances are unavailable (such as for visible light images). The link between the ImagingSelection and the report can be managed by the same mechanisms as the link from ImagingStudy to the report, and the RIS need not necessarily be aware of the ImagingSelections.

## Metadata

- Issue Type: Change Request
- Key: FHIR-51299
- Summary: Provide Recommendations on When Each Mechanism to Communicate Key Images Should be Used
- Status: Applied
- Raised in Version: 0.1.0-ballot [deprecated]
- Related Sections: Representation of Key Images
- Related Artifacts: Imaging Key Image Document Reference [deprecated]
Key images represented as an ImagingSelection [deprecated]
- Reporter: JoshPriebe
- Assignee: Unassigned
- Created: 6/27/25

## Resolution

- Status: Applied
- Resolution: Persuasive with Modification

We will add rationale to the specification on what to use when:
 * DocumentReference is to be used when the information is not present in the PACS (e.g. screenshots, photo's, ...)
 * ImagingSelection is used to refer to information in the PACS.
 * In the case both are possible, we recommend using ImagingSelection.

## Related

- Grouping: [block-vote-5]
